#What is Roleplaying?

If you're really new you might not even know this much. A roleplaying game is where you pretend to be a character in some sort of imaginary world. A table-top roleplaying game is played in a group (often with a table, but sometimes over IM or Skype) where one player is the "Game Master" (GM) who describes the world, and everyone else controls a "Player Character" (PC) who acts within the world. Players describe the actions of their character, the GM describes the results, and then the players pick more actions and hear about more results. Usually for a few hours at a time, known as a "session". There's generally a single GM and 3 to 6 PCs.

Because the term Game Master sometimes gives people ideas about absolute authority and such, which can make people into jerks, the GM is sometimes called the MC instead. MC usually stands for "Master of Ceremonies", but within this game it also stands for "Mister Cavern" or "Miss Cavern", because the MC "plays" in some sense the role of the uncaring world that the player characters live within. It's a less authoritarian sounding title.

Of course, you and your friends can play pretend all on your own without any rules, that's what Cops and Robbers is. However, this game provides rules for numbers to be attatched to characters and for the rolling of dice based on those numbers when results are uncertain, so that an element of impartialness can be attained. The MC is still responsible for what the players discover, but they decide how to respond, and if they decide to take on challenges the dice are the ultimate arbiters of success or failure, not purely the MC's whims. As much as possible, the MC should attempt to be impartial when running the game. Nobody "wins" if all the party dies, that's just the end of the story. The winning and losing is in how entertaining the story was to experience.

The rules cannot cover everything, and so the MC must also handle the common case where a player tries something that's not explicitly in the rules. Usually the group can come to an agreement as to what should happen, based on existing rules.

> source: https://lokathor.gitbooks.io/supertome/content/index.html